---
title: 'Exploring the World of Multiplayer VR'
date: 2023-06-05
permalink: /posts/2023/06/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - Multiplayer
  - VR
  - Games
  - Study Abroad
---

This Blog post was written to describe IMLEX staff about our expiriences at Multiplayer VR game room. 

Exploring the World of Multiplayer VR: Insights from Shani Israelov, an IMLEX Master Student
======

When you are an XR master student, going to a multiplayer VR game room is in no doubt an educational activity. That's why when we asked for our professor’s permission, we got the green light and headed to oVRdoze, Lyon. 

Multiplayer VR games offer a fantastic blend of interaction and fun. They allow you to collaborate with friends to solve puzzles, complete missions, or explore virtual worlds together. Alternatively, you can engage in competitive activities like team-based sports, shooter games, or racing simulations. The thrill of victory and the satisfaction of outplaying opponents keeps players engaged and motivated. When experienced in VR, the whole gameplay becomes even more immersive and realistic.

Upon arrival, we were divided into groups of 8, matching the number of available rooms. Each room was equipped with VIVE headsets, controllers, tracking systems, and powerful hardware. The VR room offered a wide selection of games and experiences to fit different interests and the staff provided us with constant assistance. 

The first game we played was a laser-shooting game, featuring a 4 vs. 4 player setup. It was enjoyable and required teamwork. Later, we combined forces to battle poisonous zombies or practice archery by shooting at targets. Watching our friends play was also entertaining. As outside observers, we could see their dedication, unusual movements, and even hear some choice words in the air. We also had the opportunity to explore single-player experiences and games.
As XR master students, we couldn't help but recognize the future potential of multiplayer VR games. 

Low latency and synchronization are crucial for a smooth experience, but issues like bandwidth limitations and network latency can affect gameplay. Advancements in graphics, haptic feedback, and motion tracking will enhance realism. Improved display resolution and graphics processing will create visually stunning virtual environments. AI advancements will improve communication between players, and lifelike avatars can accurately capture emotions.

While multiplayer VR experiences are primarily associated with gaming, their potential extends far beyond the gaming industry. It enables remote collaboration and training sessions, regardless of distance. Virtual classrooms and simulations offer interactive learning experiences. Social events like concerts and conferences can be held virtually, accessible worldwide. Multiplayer virtual tour guides provide exploration and cultural learning opportunities.

We extend our gratitude to the staff at IMLEX for fulfilling our request and to oVRdoze for providing us with a memorable and enjoyable experience. There's nothing quite like slaying zombies with your friends to strengthen teamwork and create lasting memories.

