---
title: "She Codes; Next Generation - Introduction to XR"
collection: talks
type: "Guest Lecture"
permalink: /talks/2023-05-22-talk-1/
#venue: "Testing Institute of America 2014 Annual Conference"
date: 2023-05-22
location: "Zoom"
---

she codes; is a community of women established with the goal of reaching 50% women software developers in the Israeli high-tech scene. operates over 45 branches throughout the country. Activities include programming courses, group projects led by community volunteers, tech lectures, meetings with inspirational women, career counseling, and more. At she codes;, members are encouraged to further develop their professional and personal skills as a volunteer. The volunteers not only manage the branches, they also plan study courses, organize events, and more.

I had the privilege of speaking at She codes; Next Generation, an empowering program that brings together talented girls from all corners of Israel to explore the world of coding. Guided by experienced mentors, these young innovators embark on a thrilling journey of learning and experimenting with new technologies. Throughout the program, they build impressive projects like HTML websites, JavaScript games, and Python applications.

At the event, I had the incredible opportunity to share insights on Extended Reality, a groundbreaking technology shaping our future and my master’s specialization. Together, we explored its diverse applications in Gaming, Tourism, Design, Medical, and Architecture, witnessing how it is transforming various industries.

During the talk, we delved into the distinctions between Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality (AR), Mixed Reality (MR), and the emerging Extended Reality (XR). I also took the audience on a captivating journey through the historical timeline of XR, highlighting its evolution and impact on society.

To make the concepts come to life, I demonstrated a simple Three.js 3D scene, showcasing how the girls could create their own immersive VR experience using their newfound knowledge of HTML and JavaScript. The session left us inspired and ready to embrace the exciting challenges and opportunities that XR holds for the future.

Link to the presentation can be found [here](./../files/xr_presentation_SheCodes.pdf). 